

This is the first time I am writing about a film that I liked. I hope I would be able to write more stuff like this. Blue is the Warmest Color is my first ode into french cinema and dare I say, it absolutely won't be my last. BITWC is a 2013 film about a high school girl trying to find her sexual identity. Adele played by the actor of the same name Adèle Exarchopoulos, starts off as high school literature student and soon realizes her attraction towards women. She soon develops a passionate relationship with a much older and charismatic Emma, played by Léa Seydoux. Art and sexuality are the most predominant themes of this film. There are glimpses of reflection of society's view on lesbian relationships. Even then, this film does not really try to be a take on society's views or about being a lesbian in a conservative French city. This is more simply a love story between Adele and Emma, and in that it is endearing. Adele starts off as a high school literture student who likes reading so much that she usually sleeps reading a book. There is a scene where Adele states that despite being an avid reader, she hated the literature class because the over analysis reduces and restricts the ideas into something definite, thus tunnelling the vivid imagination of the reader. This struck a chord with me, as it is something I have about academic literature as well. Adèle Exarchopoulos who is 25 now, would have been 20 when this film was shot, and boy oh boy, she gives one of the best female performances I have seen. Not to mention, she is a damn attractive woman.  An aspect that makes this film super charming is how grounded its characters and their relationships are. Adele is an introvert and conflicted adolcent and that gets reflected in her social interactions and personal contemplations, thanks to great acting and writing. This movie gets a lot of talk because of its love making scenes, which I must admit were pretty abundant and left little to imagination. What does not get enough talk is the deep seeded feel of intimacy and privacy in those scenes. Sometimes, I just felt wrong watching it on my laptop. I felt like I was peeking from a window, gawking at Adele and Emma loving each other. This is something that I can also say about the rest of the movie. It feels like we are witnessing Adele's life and experiences through a peephole. Why? because everything about this movies is so low key and casual that you hardly feel like watching a film. Like, say, the conversations, they aren't an exchange of complex ideas and beliefs, but simply a trivial get to know each other between the characters. This is simply brilliant direction. Maybe my astonishment, fun and appreciation of the movie stems from the fact that I am quite new to arthouse cinema. 
